gnsu
George Vlahavas
%%mtime(%m/%d/%Y)

%!target: man
%!encoding: utf-8
%!postproc(man): "^(\.TH.*) 1 "  "\1 8 "

= NAME =

gnsu - Gnsu's Not SU


= SYNOPSIS =

**gnsu** [//SUDOOPTIONS//] //COMMAND// [//COMMANDOPTIONS//]


= DESCRIPTION =

**gnsu** allows a permitted user to execute a //command// with superuser privileges, or as any other user. **gnsu** shows a graphical dialog requesting the user password to allow the execution of the specified command.

As **gnsu** uses **sudo** as its backend, the password that you need to provide is your current user's password, //not// the //root// user password. In any case, the user name whose password you need to enter is shown in the gnsu graphical dialog.

The user, or a group the user is part of, has to be allowed access to launching applications using **sudo**. This can be accomplished by editing the **/etc/sudoers** file using the **visudo** command. For example, adding the following line somewhere in the **/etc/sudoers** file will allow user //george// to run any command using **sudo** and by extension, **gnsu**:

george ALL=(ALL) ALL

Note that you can use any option that **sudo** has with **gnsu**, as **gnsu** passes all arguments it is given to **sudo**. For example, you can use the **sudo** option **-u** to run a command as another user, instead of running it as the superuser, which is the default behaviour. Consult the **sudo** man page for more details about those options.


= GENERAL OPTIONS =

: **-h**, **--help**
Prints a usage message briefly summarizing all command-line options
and exits.


= WEBSITE =

https://github.com/gapan/gnsu


= AUTHORS =

gnsu was written by George Vlahavas <vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>


= SEE ALSO =

**sudo**(8), **su**(8), **visudo**(8), **sudoers**(5)
